A lot of people either want to become a full-time investor a paradigm shift to do something they are passionate about.

Truth be told, we in India are taught to live in a “scarcity premium” mode; what I mean by this is the fallacy to grab whatever available to you, else you are doomed. Some of the examples of this:

Do engineering because everyone else is doing
Take whatever job you get after you graduate, whether you like it or not; else you will regret big time; you will not get another job
Accept any job offer because you are desperate for a change, no matter it does not meet your criterion and will be a deja vu moment
All I am trying is to relate to is: how much is too much?

How can you do a full stop, follow your passion, and at what point? I would call it: “Second life”

I feel that if you have 5 years of expenses in FD or some secure debt fund, then it is a good starting point. Along with it comes the Equity investments with a premise that you do not(in any condition) need this at least for the next 5 years.

To make it engaging, I would like to put some numbers:

5-year expenses: I consider Rs 1 lacs as monthly expenses; thus for 60 months, this is Rs 60 Lacs. Consider that you will get some interest on this amount, I would broadly consider Rs. 50 Lacs and over 5 years, at a blended interest rate of 4%, this will become Rs. 60 Lacs.
Some of the folks say that the day your dividends from equity investments equal your yearly expenses, you can quit your job. However, I do not agree with this point of view. Most of the great businesses have a dividend yield of close to 0.5%. If I take a blended rate of 0.75% dividend yield of your portfolio, then to make Rs 12 lacs out of your portfolio as a dividend income, your equity portfolio has to be Rs 16 crores. If you have this huge money, you need not set aside any money as you are a master in the game already or possess too much wealth. Thus, I feel this is a vague logic.

Equity allocation: This is quite open and varies from person to person; I think Rs. 2 crores equity corpus once built, should be a good starting point. Now, why Rs. 2 crores and not less or more, I don’t have any concrete answers; My premise is that Rs. 2 crores will grow to Rs. 7.5 crores over a period of 10 years at 14% CAGR(quite reasonable expectation I feel); You can buy a good house worth 2-3 crores, use it for your kids’ education or marriage and balance corpus can continue to remain invested. I have not factored in the time value of money 10 years down the line. My sense is that the basic necessities of life do not move that much(food, clothes, etc).
Real estate: Money should not be blocked here now if someone wants to do a paradigm shift
Gold: Should be accumulated in physical form(jewellery, gold coins etc.) over a period of time when you are doing the job, so that it gives some diversification; this should not be counted in your overall assets, but then it can be liquidated in case of an emergency.
PF proceeds: When you leave the corporate, you get a good chunk of investable money from PF proceeds.Since the 60 months expense criterion is already met, this money can be slowly invested into equity in a staggered manner over a few months/years. This is good comfort money to take care of someone’s cash deployment requirement when he is out of monthly salary 🙂
Term insurance and health insurance: Sufficient to take care in case of an emergency
Again the final question still remains – how much is too much?

Ending the thread with a beautiful video of Warren Buffet; please watch at  **24:10 minutes**  on what he has to say about this.
